Insights  OF the Project:

Explored sales Transaction of a Multinational company for simple insights.

*Task To find Out:

● Total sales revenue: Calculate the total revenue generated by the
company based on the "Total" column.

● Monthly sales trend: Create an appropriate chart that shows the monthly
sales trend over a given period. The chart should display the total sales
revenue for each month.

● Top-selling products: Determine the top 5 best-selling products based on
the total quantity sold. Display the product line under which they are
present and quantities in a separate table.

● Customer analysis: Create a bar chart that shows the distribution of
customers based on the total amount they spent. Group customers into
different spending ranges (e.g., $0-$100, $101-$500, $501-$1000, etc.)
and display the number of customers in each range
Sales by branch: Analyse the sales performance by branch. Calculate the
total sales revenue for each branch and display the results in a pie chart.

● Sales by customer type: Create a PivotTable that summarizes the total
sales revenue for each customer type.


*Dataset Given:
The dataset includes the following column headers:

1. Invoice ID: Unique identifier for each invoice or transaction

2. BranchCity: The city where the branch or store is located

3. Customer type: The type of customer, such as "Member" or "Normal"

4. Gender: The gender of the customer

5. Product line: The category or type of product being sold

6. Unit price: The price of a single unit of the product

7. Quantity: The quantity of products purchased in the transaction

8. Total: The total amount or value of the transaction

9. Date: The date when the transaction occurred

10. Payment: The payment method used for the transaction

11.Rating: The customer satisfaction rating or feedback for the transaction

Observation Regaring The Project:

1.Most Profitable Year: Found 2019 was the most Profitable Year in all.

2.Monthly Sales Trend: Identified sales exhibit some fluctuation but remain relatively consistent throughout the year.

3.Top Selling Product: Electronic Accessories leads from the front.

4.Spending Range: Most customers spend between $0 and $100.

5.Productive Branch:Branch C stands out as the most productive Branch.

6.Customer Dominance: Members contribution shows the dominance in overall sales.

Skills Showcase:

1.Sales Analysis: Unleashing Sales and insights.

2.Product Accommodation:Recognizing the most Demading Product.

3.Sales Trend: Recognizing the Trends of sale.

4.Popularity Analysis: Tracking Trends in Branchsales and Popularity.

5.Data- Driven Decisions: Utilising Data for Sales growth insights.

*Tools Used:
1.MS Excel- Used for Data Cleaning,Processing and Visualization.

*Data-cleaning: firstly We clean the data by finding out the Missing Values in each column and there is no Missing Value in it,so 
data is already cleaned and ready to process.

*Data-processing:  second We the analyse the data and Perform Functions regarding the data received and make the possible outcome of it in each different sheets as a result.

*Data-Visualization: Third We Visualize the Outcome in the form of charts to show the results Effectievely.
  

2.MYSQL- Used For Cleaning And Processing  

*Data-cleaning: firstly We clean the data by finding out the Missing Values in each column and there is no Missing Value in it,so 
data is already cleaned and ready to process.

*Data-processing:  second We the analyse the data and Perform Functions regarding the data received and make the possible outcome of it in each different sheets as a result.

Insights and Knowledge Acquired at Ducat India by Vishal Yadav.