#Project Summary -

-The purpose of the analysis: understanding the factors that influence the sales of a multinational store, or identifying patterns of all variables and 
 Our analysis provides useful information to the stakeholder and also provides some best insights for the business.

-This project involved exploring and cleaning a dataset to prepare it for analysis. The data exploration process involved identifying and understanding the 
 characteristics of the data, such as the data types, missing values, and distributions of values.The data cleaning process involved identifying 
 and addressing any issues or inconsistencies in the data, such as errors, missing values, or duplicate records and remove outliers.

-Through this process, we were able to identify and fix any issues with the data, and ensure that it was ready for further analysis. This is an important 
 step in any data analysis project, as it allows us to work with high-quality data and avoid any potential biases or errors that could affect the results. 
 The clean and prepared data can now be used to answer specific research.

-Once the data has been cleaned and prepared, now begin exploring and summarizing it with describe the data and creating visualizations, and identifying patterns 
 and trends in the data. in explore the data, may develop the relationships between different variables or the underlying causes of certain patterns or trends 
 and other methods.

-using data visualization to explore and understand patterns in the data. We created various graphs and charts to visualize the data, and wrote observations and 
 insights below each one to help us better understand the data and identify useful insights and patterns.

-The observations and insights we identified through this process will be useful for future analysis and decision-making related to Airbnb. 
 and also Our analysis provides useful information for travelers and hosts in the city.

#Problem statement:-

● Total sales revenue: Calculate the total revenue generated by the
company based on the "Total" column.

● Monthly sales trend: Create an appropriate chart that shows the monthly
sales trend over a given period. The chart should display the total sales
revenue for each month.

● Top-selling products: Determine the top 5 best-selling products based on
the total quantity sold. Display the product line under which they are
present and quantities in a separate table.

● Customer analysis: Create a bar chart that shows the distribution of
customers based on the total amount they spent. Group customers into
different spending ranges (e.g., $0-$100, $101-$500, $501-$1000, etc.)
and display the number of customers in each range
Sales by branch: Analyse the sales performance by branch. Calculate the
total sales revenue for each branch and display the results in a pie chart.

● Sales by customer type: Create a PivotTable that summarizes the total
sales revenue for each customer type.


#Dataset Given:
The dataset includes the following column headers:

1. Invoice ID: Unique identifier for each invoice or transaction

2. BranchCity: The city where the branch or store is located

3. Customer type: The type of customer, such as "Member" or "Normal"

4. Gender: The gender of the customer

5. Product line: The category or type of product being sold

6. Unit price: The price of a single unit of the product

7. Quantity: The quantity of products purchased in the transaction

8. Total: The total amount or value of the transaction

9. Date: The date when the transaction occurred

10. Payment: The payment method used for the transaction

11.Rating: The customer satisfaction rating or feedback for the transaction

 #Some Insights of The Project:

1.Most Profitable Year: Found 2019 was the most Profitable Year in all.

2.Monthly Sales Trend: Identified sales exhibit some fluctuation but remain relatively consistent throughout the year.

3.Top Selling Product: Electronic Accessories leads from the front.

4.Spending Range: Most customers spend between $0 and $100.

5.Productive Branch:Branch C stands out as the most productive Branch.

6.Customer Dominance: Members contribution shows the dominance in overall sales.

#Skills Showcase:

1.Sales Analysis: Unleashing Sales and insights.

2.Product Accommodation:Recognizing the most Demading Product.

3.Sales Trend: Recognizing the Trends of sale.

4.Popularity Analysis: Tracking Trends in Branchsales and Popularity.

5.Data- Driven Decisions: Utilising Data for Sales growth insights.

#Tools Used:

 * Data was Extracted online from a Data science competition platform.

 * Data Cleaning and Analysis was done with the help of MS Excel And MYSQL.

 * Visualization was done with the help of MS Excel and PowerBI.

  
Insights and Knowledge Acquired at Ducat India by Vishal Yadav.